# The GPT-Explainer Project
GPT-Explainer is a web application that uses the power of GPT (Generative Pretrained Transformer) models to explain the
content of PowerPoint presentations. It provides an HTTP API that users can interact with to upload files and get 
explanations. It consists of a Flask-based Web API and a continuous Explainer service which processes uploaded
presentations and explains them.


## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contact](#contact)


---------------------
## Features
1. File Upload: The client application can upload any file to the server using a user-friendly interface. It uses a robust mechanism to handle file uploads securely and efficiently.
2. Status Check: After a file has been uploaded, the application can check the status of the file processing. It fetches a comprehensive report including the file's current status, the timestamp, and a detailed explanation generated by the server.
3. PowerPoint Parsing: This application can parse any PowerPoint presentation, extracting the text from each slide for analysis.
4. GPT-3.5 Explanations: The text content from each slide is sent to OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model. This advanced AI model generates explanations for the contents of the slide.
5. Exception Handling: The client application is designed to handle common HTTP errors gracefully. It makes it easy to troubleshoot issues with the API connection or file upload process.
6. Logging: The application logs its activity, making it easier to debug issues or track its progress. The logging level can be adjusted according to your needs (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL).

---------------------
## Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following:

- OpenAI API key


## Installation

1. Clone the repository: 
    ```shell
   `git clone https://github.com/Scaleup-Excellenteam/final-exercise-damianti/tree/develop`
   
2. Set up the packages:
    ```shell
    -pip install -r requirements.txt


3. Put your own apikey in the .env file in the explainer directory 

---------------------
## Usage

### Run the program (different options):

1. Go to the root of the project. You will need to run each program separately

    ```shell
   python flaskServer/main.py &
   python Explainer/explainer.py &
   python client/client.py
   
2. Alternatively, you can check the test and run it using the path you want. You will need to change the pptx path
situated in TEST_PPT_PATH in the test.py and then go to the root of the project and run:
   ```shell
   python test.py


---------------------
## Contact

For any questions or issues, please open an issue on GitHub or contact the maintainer at damian.tissembaum@gmail.com